# Progress Report (May 3, 2018)
## Overview
At the point when this group presented the Milestone 2, we created use cases. These use cases revolved around the routelist.txt file that was provided to us. This list provided all 300+ URI elements found on the CoRA website. Majority of these function are on the administration page that the three level of users should not be able to access. From that point onward, the group focused on the automated testing of the elements that existed on the base page (https://cora-cat.herokuapp.com). The primary coding language that we used for the automated testing is PHP. We used an IDE called PHPStorm that made the testing more smooth. Lastly, we used Homestead Vagrant box to host the testing environment. What the group was focused on is making sure that elements that are supposed to be on their respective pages would load. From that point, we then made tests to make sure that different level of users and users from different organizations could not access pages or elements that they should not have access to. 

## Outcomes
What we achieved:
- Learned about setting up and utilizing a Selenium-based test environment
- Created about 56 automated test scripts for multiple users under two different organizations
- Further understand the Laravel Dusk framework
- Implement selectors that are commonly used in specific pages
- Report bugs/defects we found during testing

## Hindrances
From the beginning of the project we developed a risk list of potential issues that may hinder our progress throughout our timeline. Unfortunately we had come across these issues in more than one instance. Re-evaluating our list there are some that had updated to become the most impacting. Starting with one of the lesser impacting issues was stability with the testing tool and hardware we used. The PhpStorm IDE often slowed down some of our members’ devices to a point where developing scripts took twice the time. The testing framework of Laravel Dusk also proved to be a difficult setup with the initial setup along with implementing to different devices often took more than a day to fine tune. Another hindrance we came across was with system outages with the application; as we were testing we often ran into an issue where too many requests would block us from the application. Communication was the second most impacting hindrance where we could have done better in keeping constant communication with the client to make sure we are on track and to report any issues we were having in developing automated test scripts. Lastly the most impacting hindrance easily goes to the learning curve of the Laravel Dusk framework. No-one in the team was an experienced programmer, so learning PHP and how Dusk integrates certain functions like selectors and pages with the application’s html encoding highly slowed down our development. There are more hindrances we may detail but these are the four most impacting to our testing project.
